What devices do we have here.
This is a writer.
This is a Cisco 43 21 rotor.
I've chosen this road specifically why purchase this right specifically because it's available in Packet
Tracer.
This is a Cisco 35 66 switch again 35 60 switches are available in Packet Tracer.
You don't need to spend money buying all these devices.
I've done that for you.
Now obviously if you want to you could buy physical equipment.
It's nice in some ways to work with physical equipment but for the CCMA you don't have to use physical
equipment if you can afford it.
Just use packet tracer and I'll show you in a moment when I boot up this rider and the switch and compare
it to Packet Tracer you'll see it's very very similar.
This is an example of a 29 60 switch.
What I like about these switches is they families.
So I have them on my desk here and it doesn't make a lot of noise and mess up the recordings but here
we've got two interesting devices.
They look very similar very similar to each other.
But what you'll notice and these are older devices is this is a Cisco AC 55 of 5 This is called a firewall
firewalls allow us to stop bad people getting into our network so we can restrict who can access our
network.
They use what are called firewall rules to permit or deny traffic.
This is a small little firewall typically used again in a small business.
The idea here is we can connect a bunch of devices directly to the firewall so it's acting like a switch.
In some ways but I could specify what's called the outside interface and the inside interface.
And I do not allow or this firewall does not allow traffic from the outside interface to the inside
interface unless you explicitly allow it your home rider probably does something similar has a built
in Firewall your P.C. may be also running a firewall a software firewall directly on the P.C..
This is an example of a hardware dedicated firewall.
Now riders as mentioned often have firewall functionality but this is a dedicated firewall.
Now you could connect your internet directly to the firewall if you haven't Ethernet connection and
then to the rotor and then to the switch where you're inside devices or or your land is all you could
connect to the rudder and then have the firewall behind the rudder so you either have the firewall in
front of the router or behind the router in many cases you're going to have this behind the router because
your ISP may manage the rudder all you need a physical connection that's not Ethernet.
These devices typically only support Ethernet Ryder will support other types of technologies such as
a DSL or cable as an example.
So the internet connects to the road it connects to the firewall which then connects to your switch
in your internal network.
Now he has another device looks very much the same but this is a wireless LAN controller.
Another small wireless LAN controller.
You'll notice the form factor looks exactly the same but it has different functionality.
This is used to manage access points.
If you've only got one access point it makes sense to manage the access point directly using what's
called an autonomous access point economists meaning that you don't need a wireless LAN controller to
manage it.
But if you've got 100 of these or 500 of these it's going to be a lot of work to manually configure
every one of those access points.
So rather than doing that you use what's called lightweight access points.
Some of these access points support both so they can either be lightweight or they can be autonomous.
Some of them have to be lightweight access points varies depending on which one you buy.
But the idea is is if I had 100 of these or 500 of these they would register with the wireless LAN controller.
Now obviously this is a small wireless LAN controller so it's not going to support as many access points.
But the idea is if I have 100 access points they would connect to the wireless LAN controller.
And notice this doesn't have as many ports as as would be required.
The wireless LAN controller and the bigger ones even more so don't have so many interfaces.
They simply connect to switches so the access points connector switches the wireless LAN controller
connects to switches switches are there to provide lots of ports to connect to in the network.
So the whole idea here is the wireless LAN controller will manage the access points rather than manually
managing every one of the access points you manage them through the wireless LAN controller.
So the wireless LAN controller will manage let's say 100 500 access points depends on the controller.
Depends what it can support.
So once again here we've got a firewall.
This is an older firewall.
USA Today we have what are called next generation firewalls.
They support features such as IP s or IBS.
Now intrusion detection.
Let me give you an analogy so that you won't forget what intrusion detection is an I.D. S is like a
dog what a dog can do is help protect you by warning you when there's an attack taking place.
Let's say you sleeping at night sleeping comfortably in bed the dog however sniffs that there's an attacker
so an intruder it sniffs that there's an intruder trying to break into your house.
What does it do.
It box it warns you that there's an intruder.
It doesn't stop the attacker.
It warns you that there's an attacker and then you can do something to stop the attacker trying to break
into your house.
An intrusion detection system simply detects that there's a problem and then alerts you that there's
a problem and then you have to do something about it.
An intrusion prevention system can alert you that there's a problem but also block the attack so it
can prevent the attack.
So if someone breaks into your network remotely let's say a hacker it can see that there's malicious
activity on the network and then it can block that attacker.
So prevent that attacker from gaining access to your network intrusion detection systems typically set
out of band of network traffic so the traffic is going past them but they're not in the flow of traffic
they're just getting copies of the traffic to see if there's a problem and intrusion prevention system
sits in line with the traffic.
The traffic is going through the eyepiece or intrusion prevention system.
When there's an attack it blocks it so the attacker can't get into your network.
So think of an I.D. S or an IP s as a dog.
Is it a small dog ideas.
If it isn't a very large dog eyepiece can go and attack the attacker.
Hopefully that analogy will help you never forget what an idea or IP SS.